---
title: The Summer Before My PhD
date: 2024-08-18
tags: phd
---

May 5th, 2024 was the very first day that I woke up as a college graduate. It was interestingly one of the few times that I can say I woke up feeling significantly different than the night before (sorry mom, 15 doesn’t actually feel all that different from 14). This was also the start of a countdown, 3 months to enjoy to myself before tshe start of the marathon that would be my Ph.D. 

My head spun with different ideas on how to spend this time. Creating good habits, researching professors, reading, relaxing, working. There seemed so much I wanted to do in such little time before I left. Additionally, I had just come off of an incredibly stressful last undergraduate semester and had been experiencing one of the more serious forms of burnout I had felt in a long time. 

In situations such as this, I have often found it is best to just pick anything and start. For me, this selection was to set up the healthy habits I would want to have when I started my PhD. I split this into two main categories: exercise and food. 

Exercise was first and essential. During undergraduate, volleyball was second only two school in terms of time devoted and many weeks it kept me anchored to sanity. I knew that going into a very stressful time I would want to have various ways that I could keep with this crucial part of my physical and mental wellbeing. So over the course of the next weeks I experimented with different workouts, schedules, and types of exercise to find a combination that would work for me. Knowing that my next year would require flexibility I aimed for a flexible schedule. This meant having goals but allowing for change such as at home workouts and switching times. Additionally for me this meant finding a workout routine that I enjoyed so that I knew I would stay with it and so that it served its double purpose of being a relaxing stress relief for me. In the end I settled for a mix between the gym and calisthenics (which can be done from home) while also using the time to look into pickup leagues for the sports I love in my area. 

The second part of this appealed to the side of me that loves to cook. I challeged myself to find recipes that were easy to make, good, healthy, and/or could be made in bulk and reheated for meal prep. This allowed me to start experimenting with different recipes that will be convenient for me to make for myself next year. This involved lots of instagram food accounts, grocery shopping, and learning new technqiues in the kitchen. At the end of the summer, I had made a neatly organized notion page with recipes I knew I could count on and more importantly the skill to improvise in the kitchen and more confidence in trying new recipes. 

Between the exercising and cooking, I found time to prepare for graduate school in part by looking into some faculty members at Emory that I may be interested in researching with. This gave me a list of people that I knew I would be interested in reaching out to once I arrived at Emory and unintentionally helped me understand better the kind of research I was interested in pursuing. I would like to go more in depth on this process but I will probably save that for a post on faculty selection later on as it goes a little off topic. 

It was after about a month of this that I had my most transformative experience of the summer… a chance to travel across Europe. 

In this trip I started in Italy and traveled through Barcelona, Paris, Amsterdam, and Frankfurt before returning home. This  18 day trip was incredibly fun and was the first trip I have taken in a long time where I did not even bring a computer or binder with me. With me I brought a personal journal, a book (”Living Medicine” by Fred Applebaum), and beyond so much excitment about my first plane ride alone. 

My journey through Europe was incredible giving me the chance to explore different cultures, see breathtaking places, meet new and different people, and above all to reconnect with my interests without stress. My interest in travel and languages were obviously something I got to use a lot during this trip but others that I didn’t expect came out as well. Spending mornings relaxed in parks or cafes reading my book on bone marrow transplants reconnected me with the love I have for medicine. Additionally, I ended up feeling inspired to write numerous blog posts in my journal about my academic journey and research. It was as if without stress I was able to feel connected again to the part of my that decided to pursue a Ph.D. because I love the science, medicine, and research. This feeling helped me so much to feel over the “burnout” that had plagued my last semester as an undergraduate. 

I now edit this post from within my new apartment in Atlanta. As my summer ends and I anxiously await the start of my new program I am so thankful for the way that I spent my summer. I have already had a chance to put my cooking to the test and it has made the transition much easier. Additionally, I feel more excited than ever to begin my program and grow as a scientist/researcher more than I can likely imagine.